---
title: Reading in 2025
date: 2026-01-14
---

2025 was a better year for reading than many a recent one.
Though I didn't get through as many as I'd have _liked_ to,
I think I have to accept that I literally never will!
I did manage 24 novels or non-fiction.
Not quite one-every-two-weeks but for fairly arbitrary reasons I didn't include graphic novels.
They'd have definitely bumped up my score.

I also read more books by women than men.
This shouldn't really feel like a massive achievement but I was surpised by how it did take a bit of effort - deliberately pushing a book to the front of the queue here and there.

[The full list is available over here](/rnp/content/lists/books-2025.md). What follows are a few of my favourite discoveries of the year. There were a few re-reads (JG Ballard's _Cocaine Nights_, Susanna Clark's _Piranesi_) which I love, but don't feel the need to feature here. These are new-to-me books and authors that I really enjoyed.

## Benjamin Myers - Beastings

I read _The Perfect Golden Circle_ right at the start of the year and really enjoyed it, but _Beastings_ was something else. It's brutal, bleak, gruesome. Described as a frontier Western set in Cumbria, it's an astonishing short book. You can almost feel the lashing rain and smell the animals. Fantastic.

## Shirley Jackson - We Have Always Lived in the Castle

Just about as close to the League of Gentlemen as a novel can get. Without the jokes.
Deeply weird, gothic vibes and a tale of murder and suspicion. Would recommend to anyone.

## Elspeth Barker - O Caledonia

It really was a year for the brooding and weird. In the same vein, this is a small and powerful story, of a creepy house and some creepy family. Full of gloom but with a real sense of humour too.
